# ActiveCancellationInSeismicEngineering
Attempting to predict the impact of seismic activity on structures and combat with out of phase damping

## Study Outline
My study was focused on studying alternative damping methods specifically related to seismic activity. I was interested in exploring the concept of noise cancelling using destructive interference and applying it to structural dynamics. 

To accomplish this goal there needed to be a method of predicting the signal due to the seismic activity. Thus, I began with a study of earthquake ground accelerations, from one region (Northern California), and attempted to find traits that exist throughout the entire signal (an indication that the signal is not purely stochastic). In attempting to find means of categorizing the ground accelerations, I found that many of the signals are dominating by high frequency components. I also found that the dominant frequency of the first few seconds of the signal was extremely close if not the same as the dominant frequency of the entire signal.

To provide the destructive interference, I generated a sine wave at the dominant frequency and 180 degrees out of phase, and added it to the forcing function of the single degree of freedom system.  I was astonished at how clear the results were. The first few seconds almost always showed reduction in heights of the max displacement (or response) of the structure. However, when the signal persisted throughout the duration of the signal, it was clearly visible that the structure would then begin responding to the forcing function we generated rather than the rapidly diminishing earthquake signal. 

This was as far as I was able to come for this project. I had aspirations to run the program for many more earthquakes to build a backlog of different earthquakes with the indicators that we had devised earlier. Furthermore, this backlog would have then been used to provide historical data that could be used to create a more efficient destructive function. These steps would have required much more effort including some sorting and referencing algorithms, which I was already set up to do. However, those methods were useless without optimal signal cancelling algorithm, which would have made use of the back stores of data efficiently and would provide and actual use for the backlog of data. Unfortunately, I struggled in devising this, and thus was unable to engage in the next step of my project. 

Ultimately, what I was able to accomplish in this mere two weeks was a proof of concept. I found that it is possible to find a dominant frequency that is present throughout a supposedly random earthquake signal. I also found that by using this dominant frequency and superimposing it, 180 degrees out of phase, onto the earthquake, destructive interference is possible. Though my findings are not as strong and conclusive as I would have liked, I think with more time and effort it would be possible to create better signal cancellation (by using more than one dominant frequency). I think this method could have merit for a cheap supplemental damping method for structures that are ill equipped in high risk areas.  
